# Craigslist-Vehicle-Analysis

In this project, the vehiclesTiny dataset was used on RStudio to conduct a rigorous analysis of the patterns in the dataset..

The initial vehiclesTiny dataset is a dataset that contains information about different vehicles being sold on the website CraigsList. This dataset was cleaned up to remove unessecary columns such as ID, URL, Region URL, VIN, Latitude, Longitude, and Description. A price filter was also applied to filter out cars that were under $1000 and over $76,000. This cleaned up data contains information about the region where the vehicle is being sold, the price of the vehicle, the year when the car was manufactured, the vehicle manufacturer, the vehicle model, the condition of the vehicle, the number of cylinders the vehicle has, the fuel type, the odometer reading, the the title status, the transmission type, the drive, the size of the vehicle, the type of the vehicle, and the paint color.

Summary statistics were generated for the numerical data (price, cylinders, and odometers) to show the first quartile, minimum value, mean, maximum value, and third quartile. Additionally, various vizualizations such as boxplots, bargraphs, and scatterplots were created to analyze the relationships and patterns between different variables in the dataset. Furthermore, regression analysis was conducted, where 1 machine learning model and 3 linear models were created in order to see which variables affect `price` the most. Finally, diagnostic plots were made to assess the last linear model. Based on these diagnostic plots, future improvements can be made to the analysis and generation of the models.
